1. Create indecies on frequently queried columns.
Given that the Books table doesn't have too many columns and that it is likely queries are made
from a library catalog system in which the user selects which field to query, it would be best to index
'title', 'genre', and 'published_date'. This will significantly reduce the number of rows parsed during
queries on these fields.

2. Avoid returning more data than necessary for a given query.
For example, suppose a user wishes to perform a query to view a subset of all the books,
say they want to view all the 'fiction' books from a specific publication date range.
Likely, the catalog system will display a list of just the metadata of these books;
the user can then browse through the list and select on one of the books if they want to view
more extensive information about that book. In this use case, it could save a lot query time to return
only the metadata of each book in a first query for the initial list, and then return a more exhastive list
of information in a second query by selected book id.

3. Partitioning
Depending on frequently run queries, it might be beneficial to split tables up into sub tables to reduce query time
For example, partitioning the Books table could easily be split into similarily-sized subtables based on
publication year or year range. For example, there could be a table specifically for books published in the 2010s.
Then, any time this a query calls for the set of 2010s books (or a subset of 2010s books), this subtable could 
be called instead of the entire Books table, significantly reducing the number of rows to query.

4. Caching
Cache queries to frequently-queried lists. For example, querying by genre or book popularity is likely very
common, and many bookstore/library interfaces even accomadate this by having tabs dedicated specifically for 
each of these lists. Instead of performing a query on the entire Books table every time a user wants to view
'fiction' books, this particular query could run once when the library catalog is loaded so that when the user
wants to go back to the 'fiction' books list a second time, the data is already loaded and does not need to be
re-queried.